>> Will: Okay, so we now hit in line 17.
Another tricky line really, and actually,
to be fair,
we didn't dwell on this last time.
So we'll do it properly this time,
which is setInterval to which, Wye,
we're passing,
what function definition in full?
>> Speaker 2: We're passing data to view.
>> Will: Yes, exactly,
or at least a reference to its
function definition in full.
And then, an argument of how many
milliseconds should this the interval
between each execution of data view,
or data view?
>> Speaker 2: 15 milliseconds.
>> Will: 15 milliseconds.
This line here is a 1.
We move out of this line immediately.
Because what does it do?
It grabs a dataToView function, or
at least a link back to it in JavaScript,
just to be precise.
And it is going to pass it to,
in the web browser, our timer feature.
Now, as I say, this one technically
is implemented somewhere between
the JavaScript engine, I understand, and
outside of it in the browser as a whole.
But, for what we need to do,
we know that it is certainly not
blocking running code in JavaScript.
Of that, we're sure.
We're instead passing to it,
set up an interval of
every 15 milliseconds.
You will pass back your callback on and
add to the callback queue
the dataToView function.
dataToView function, there it is.
I don't know why did it so
big, but there it is.
Brilliant, and
that is that line done, finished.
I'm gonna just literally cross it out.
Do not think we're inside of it.
Please do not think it's sitting on
the call stack, set to interval.
No, it's done.
But every 15 milliseconds,
including 15 milliseconds later,
in other words, almost immediately,
we are going to get what function
passed to the callback queue?
Wye.
>> Speaker 2: We'll call dataToView.
>> Will: Yeah, absolutely.
I'm gonna continue to ask Wye this one so
that every time I have to say data
after you say data and
everyone feels [LAUGH] uncomfortable.
So it sits in the queue there, dataToView.
There it sits until we are sure that
there's nothing else executing.
Well, we know there was nothing else
executing, because that's the last part of
our global synchronous, that is,
in order down the page, code.
So dataToView can be added from the queue.
The event loop checks.
Is there any more code?
Nope.
To run?
Is there anything any
function on the call stack?
Nope.
And so dataToView can be added dataToView
can be added to the call stack,
where the help of JavaScript will
ensure that it is executed, is run.
It's gonna add the parens for
us to execute it.
I love that.
I think that's really cool.
And then that is going to pass,
or that's going to add or take.
Sorry, let me get that right.
That's gonna pass the thread of
execution into the dataToView,
the dataToView, function's brand new,
what, everybody?
>> Speaker 2: Execution context.
>> Will: That's right, exactly.
That was actually quite mellow and perfect
tone for the morning, honestly, and
not mellow in a bad way,
mellow in a wonderful way.
All right, that's lovely.
So into it we go.
And this is our essentially initial
run of it, taking our initial state,
our initial data and using it before any
user action that can change that state,
data, content that will then run the
dataToView function again at that point.
Into it we go, and what are we gonna do?
Phil, can you help me out what we're
doing inside of our dataToView function?
>> Phil: Yeah, we're gonna access
our JS input accessor object.
>> Will: Right, there it is.
>> Phil: We're going to find the value
setter property on that object and
set it equal to the value of post.
>> Will: Which is?
>> Phil: Which currently
is an empty string.
>> Will: Empty string.
So we know that value will be setting
the value of the associated linked,
hidden property link DOM element,
in input, sorry.
And that is where we set the value,
perfect.
Done, and same in the next line, Phil?
>> Phil: We're gonna
basically do the same thing.
We're gonna access
the JS Div Accessor object.
>> Will: Yeah.
>> Phil: We're going to use the text
content setter property on that object and
set it equal to post, which is also.
>> Will: Didn't do it yet,
but yes, there it is.
>> Phil: An empty string.
>> Will: And that's going to do nothing,
really, for what the user sees.
Again, there was a time where
you wouldn't even turn data into
empty content on the page,
because what's there to do?
It's already got it on the page.
But by defaulting to everything the user
sees must be a manifestation of underlying
data, we're even going to go ahead
displaying blank data, because it is data.
It still state.
It's still something that can be changed
by the user based on their action.
Every single thing that can be changed,
we have to figure out a way to, quote,
display it or not.
A div not showing up,
it's still presentation causing view.
In that case, it's data causing no view.
But it's still dependent
on the underlying data.
Okay, perfect.
Brilliant, I think that's it.
So our initial dataToView
call is finished.
Al right, good, so
dataToView is popped off the call stack.
Or, no, purple not possible.
And it was already out
of the callback queue.
Sorry people, as soon as it gets added
to the call stack, it's out of here, but
we always forget to remove it because,
yeah.
Okay, now the user's just sitting and
enjoying the page.
Honestly, to be fair,
they're literally figuring out what is?
They're probably going,
there's an empty input field.
And so they're quite excited but they're
curious, but they're nervous to write in
there because obviously this user
interface has been terribly designed.
There's no preview text even, right.
So they're puzzling for a bit, but
at about one minute, they take action.
User actions.
At about one minute, they take action and
they are going to start typing.
So we're not doing a click first here.
I mean, they technically will click first,
but we have no handler, so
we can ignore it.
And they'll start typing, and
what are they going to type?
Let's have John.
They're gonna type "John" and
"John" is going
to show up in their input
field that is to say this
C++ list of elements is
gonna have "John" in
its value in the input
C++ object immediately.
An event is sent that triggers
this handleInput function
from C++ to be added
to our callback queue.
And there it goes.
Our handleInput function is added.
There it is.
No code is running.
We're at one minute, so nothing's running.
We've been waiting a while here.
So, event loop goes, we're good to go.
Put me on the call stack and
handleInput will appear on the call
stack where our friend JavaScript
is gonna go ahead and execute it.
And create everybody together a brand new.
>> Speaker 2: Execution context,
>> Will: Execution context, beautiful.
2, we said there's two functions here,
one is propagating our data across and
runs every 15 milliseconds, but
essentially all the time, and
the other a bit like as we
described earlier in a game,
basically here every sixty times
a second as far as the eye can see.
And then,
pinpoint we have a function handleInput,
that is going to run only
when user takes action.
And then we're going to grab,
hopefully the data as a submission
of change to data before
instantaneously our converter
displays the consequence of
that change in actual view.
Hopefully the only consequence is
defined in our dataToview converter,
I want everything in there.
Nothing that can affect what the user sees
based on their action should be outside of
my converter function.
It makes things predictable,
it means everything is traceable
back to underlying state.
It enables me to reason in terms of not
complex exponential flows of individual
paths a user can take in
terms of their actions.
Remove something, add something, click
that thing, that would happen, shoot,
now that's gonna change that,
so we can't allow.
No, everything would depend on state
which we can then analyze in any
given data here, what will the output be?
And all the user can do is
change us to a different state,
different type or
different value here in JavaScript.
And off that, we know, because we
designed it in our dataToview function,
what will show up, we can be sure of it.
These aren't truths,
these are moves to make our lives easier,
these aren't facts, these are tactics.
That's Ian, shout out to Ian for making
something that was bad already even worse.
No
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Will: I mean,
my thing was bad, I get you.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Will: But just remember,
these aren't like truths.
These aren't like, this is,
as we talk about these,
you might be like, I could do
that a different way, absolutely.
There are different ways you
can do all these things.
These are like what has become
the standard, if only because,
it's probably got fewer
trade-offs than others.
And also, it's become a,
yeah, Will go ahead.
>> Speaker 2: Motions not notions.
>> Will: Okay, no, right.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Will: This is,
I don't even know what that mean, motion,
it doesn't even make sense at this point
like, this is rhyming words at this point.
Okay, brand new decision
context as was said.
And here it is, it's opened, and
into it we go, where we are going to?
Help me out, Jon,
as you are special named person here.
Jon, what are we gonna do in line 11?
>> Jon: So, we are setting our post
variable to jsInputs value property.
>> Will: Right, but we know that
that value property is actually,
is it a setter or a getter?
>> Jon: It's a getter, right?
>> Will: It's a getter, spot on,
to get the value of what?
>> Jon: Input.
>> Will: Which is?
>> Jon: Which is Jon.
>> Will: Which is Jon, fab,
exactly, which is Jon.
And that.
>> Will: Which is Jon, and
that then, will be assigned
to post as a JavaScript string, great.
If our model we're doing his usual
job then dataToView would now be,
reorder executing every 15 milliseconds,
it will be executing to update Jon,
both here and here.
Nothing displayed to the user is not
dependent on the underlying state for
more than like 14 milliseconds,
before the change happens.
However, before we do that, we have a,
I probably should have done will,
shouldn't I?
No, rather than Jon.
Okay, we'll probably
change that in a second.
So, we have a conditional, people,
which is assessing is our,
post value will.
Phil, is that post value will?
>> Speaker 6: No.
>> Will: No, it's not.
It probably should be for
the purposes of our diagramming
to save us doing, unnecessary diagramming.
So sorry, Jon,
we have instead gonna have, that's fine.
We're gonna have the users input be, will,
which is going to do
something quite different.
The user types will and
that shows up on the value here, and
then that's our value
string that's going to be,
sorry, the return that's gonna be
got off the input element, and
that's going to be saved as
a JavaScript string on post.
Now.
>> Will: What is our value of post
in line 12 and our conditional Phil?
>> Phil: Yeah, it is.
>> Will: It is, so post is,
Will is true, and so
we're going to run what method or
what access or object Phil?
>> Speaket 7: We're gonna run the remove
method on the jsDiv accessor after.
Brilliant, that's exactly what
we're gonna do, and technically,
and this actually is a moment
to introduce the fact that,
we have attached and unattached elements
on our C++ list, sorry, the DOM.
>> Will: We do not actually, because we
still have a label and access an object in
JavaScript memory, we don't actually
delete this DOM C++ element.
Instead, it just gets removed from
the list of displayed elements and
becomes an unattached element down here.
And that's okay, I mean,
that is what it is.
>> Will: But,
what's most significant here is,
our Div has disappeared.
The users view what they're
seeing is being affected from
somewhere other than our
dataToview converter function.
We are in other words,
having consequences for
our data, sorry, for
our users' experience, what they see,
based on things that are not
tracked in data, in memory.
This is because it turns
out even the containers,
the boxes that are being displayed
are themselves things that have
underlying data associated with them,
whether we wanna admit it or not.
Displaying or not displaying
a box is data being changed,
in this case, the data of true or
false, is that box there or not?
Is that container there or not?
If we want our dataToview function
to actually capture all pipe,
all possible things that the user can
change and what they see through it,
we need to put our element creation and
or in theory removal but
already unlike, isn't it better
to not create it every time.
Well we'll see, into a dataToview
function with it turns out,
even our elements existence or
not is a result of,
there is something the user is seeing and
can change.
And in any real application,
if you are writing a message, or
if you're posting a tweet and it shows
up right below, that is a new div.
That is a new division on the page
has a new element being added,
that is a previously not there and
now there.
That is,
the user is changing what they see.
That is the user changing the content.
And therefore, that is, by implication,
the user changing data and
view, and what they're seeing.
Actually, let's rerun dataToView.
It's gonna rerun in a second, right?
Let's do that.
Let's have a, handleInput is finished
executing, unless I've missed anything.
Stop me if I have.
And in a moment, dataToView is going to,
in its usual loop,
start executing because of setInterval.
And so there it is.
dataToView, auto parens
added via JavaScript,
brand new what, everybody?
>> Speaker 2: Execution context.
>> Will: Help me out while
I'm getting the pen to work.
Brand new execution context.
There it is.
It's writing so nicely on my preview.
There it is, beautiful,
brand new execution context.
Doesn't that look fantastic?
Into it we go.
We are going to what?
Ian, what are we gonna do in our first
line of our dataToView conversion?
>> Ian: We're going to
use the accessor object
jsInput, and assign its value to post.
But the value is actually going
to be a method provided to us
by the DOM that we can use in JavaScript-
>> Will: Beautiful.
>> Ian: To assign its value.
>> Will: And
look what we're gonna do there, people.
We're going to ensure the user only
sees stuff that we got from data,
because that makes our
lives wonderfully easy.
And so Will shows up.
I don't need to puzzle about
what's gonna be displayed.
It depends on my data, and
it's what's described in my one place,
my dataToView converter function.
I read my next line,
my dataToView converter function
should work as expected.
Okay, jsDiv,
tell me what's happening here, Ian?
>> Ian: jsDiv accessor object for
the div is getting its
text content setter called-
>> Will: Yeah.
>> Ian: With a parameter of post.
>> Will: And it's going to?
>> Ian: It's not attached to the document,
so
we're not actually gonna see anything,
right?
>> Will: But
we're gonna add the string, Will.
I'm happy, I'm not even getting an error.
[LAUGH] I'm thrilled.
And the user is so proud,
I've managed to type in Will,
maybe this is just a prank for me.
So I've typed in my name, I'm thrilled.
And the preview div disappears.
>> Will: I get no error for it, and I've
got no idea where to track down what's
caused my, now, look, it's not
the case that we couldn't fix this.
We heard a suggestion immediately,
like, wait,
wait, wait,
are you checking whether there's a div?
But immediately, wow,
what a thing to have to do!
I thank you to our friend online who
kinda teed up, that before we try and
display content we're gonna need to,
in another place,
do a conditional check on what's
currently rendered on the page.
Whether we can then add
text to that element.
I'm not even sure how we're checking
whether it's being displayed or not,
but we are gonna do
that in our dataToView.
And that's only gonna be necessary if,
we gotta check if, okay,
I'm sort of stumbling around.
It's not that it's
impossible by any means,
we can certainly fix
this code very quickly.
It's whether at a thousand elements,
is this the best way to have
condition saying, if the DOM element's
being removed, or not there,
or unattached, sorry, then please
don't try and set its text content.
I've already had to deal with three
different steps there of a user's journey.
And there's another path
that you could take.
Imagine if all I have to reason about is,
what is the state of the universe?
And the user can change that, but I don't
really care what they change it from or
to, I just care about
what's the state of it.
And then off that display my content.
What a leveling up of reasoning.
Is it perfect?
No, we're gonna see
those trade offs off it.
Is it at least restrictive and
predictable?
You bet it is.
This is our source of truth.
This is what determines
what's gonna show up.
Not random other callback
handler plus initial.
Don't forget that even input and
div being there in the first place,
is a consequence of data.
That is to say, there is input and
div true, versus now input and
div, sorry,
div false input still true, right?
Don't think that this being up here is,
as long as it can be turned off,
then there is state behind it.
There is true or false.
So we just didn't realize that actually
we started off with implicitly input and
div true exist on the page.
And then with this handler's run,
we turned it off.
We want to have every piece
of view that can be changed.
It must have corresponding data for
it to be changed.
We want to make that data explicit.
Including whether or not the container for
our more obvious data,
the text, is even there or not.